# Overloading

C++ allows you to specify more than one definition for a **function** name or an **operator** in the same scope, which is called **function overloading** and **operator overloading** respectively.

## Function Overloading

Function Overloading will allow us to use the same function name for different functions. As long as the argument list is different, the compiler will be able to choose the correct definition. Different argument list means either the variable type is different and/or the number of arguments is different.

```c++
/* Same function but it can take different arguments (type or number) */
#include "main.hpp"
int main()
{
    Compare c;
    int a = 5; 
    int b = 4;
    float f1 = 5.43;
    float f2 = 6.32;
    char c1 = 'c';
    char c2 = 'z';
    std::cout<<c.findSmaller(a,b)<<" is the smaller of "<<a<<" and "<<b<<"\n";
    std::cout<<c.findSmaller(f1,f2)<<" is the smaller of "<<f1<<" and "<<f2<<"\n";
    std::cout<<c.findSmaller(c1,c2)<<" is the smaller of "<<c1<<" and "<<c2<<"\n";
    return 0;
}
```



## Overloadig Constructors

We saw in the Classes lesson that we can have two kinds of constructors:

- those that do not have input parameters
- those that do have them.

```c++
    Square s1; // default dimension
    Square s2(4,3);
```



## Overloading Operators

We can overload operators in C++. This is useful when using user defined objects.

In the example below we will use operators to overload the '+' sign.

Let's look at the example in detail.
You can see in the code below, the function must specify a return type. Then it must use the keyword 'operator' followed by the '+' sign.

```c++
      //The function that overloads the '+' sign
      int operator + (Shape shapeIn)
      {
          return Area() + shapeIn.Area();
      }
```

To use the overloaded '+' sign, we just have to use it with our user defined objects.

For example:

```c++
 int total = sh1 + sh2;
```

In this case the '+' will add the areas of the two shapes.



## More on Overloading

If you would like to learn more about Overloading, you will find this tutorial helpful. [Overloading Tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cplusplus/cpp_overloading.htm)